---
layout: post
title:  The Velocity RDA (clone by Tobeco) - A Flavor Build On Labor Day, 2015
date:   2015-09-07
author: Jeffrey T. Schwartz
authorImg: eic-profile-photo.jpg
og-image: "/images/posts/6.jpg"
---

I would love to purchase an authentic **_Velocity RDA_** but, unfortunately, I can't find it anywhere. Hearing that the **_Tobeco Velocity clone_** is quite nice I opted to pick one up. I've had mine now for only a few short weeks but already I have to say that it has really spoiled me. It is, without a doubt, the best flavor RDA I've owned to date and it's only the clone - I can only imagine just how great the authentic must be.

Being that today is Labor Day here in the States, I decided to rebuild my Velocity, focusing on a great flavor build. As I am shooting for flavor over clouds (though I really enjoy the clouds) **_I opted to use a braided 26 gauge wire by UD_**. The package the wire comes in is labeled Roll Coils. If you look closely at the wire you can see that it is just two 26 gauge wires that are braided around each other to form links like in a chain linked fence but the links are much tighter of course.

I measured the wire to find that **_it has an average twist pitch of around 1 mm_**. Knowing the twist pitch is important because Steam Engine uses this number in its calculation for parallel/twisted wire. If you're interested, you can follow this link to **[Steam Engine](//www.steam-engine.org/coil.asp?p=roundmulti&tp=1&s=dp&r=0.35&str=2&awg=26&id=3.5&ll=1)** to see my calculation for this build. From experience **_I've learned that Steam Engine is off somewhat when calculating for parallel/twisted wire_**. So I added two more full wraps to what it indicated and even with 8 wraps it came out to only .32 ohms, short of Steam Engine's calculation of .35 ohms, but closer to what I expected anyway and I am quite happy with it.

**_For flavor builds I prefer a larger inner diameter than I normally use for cloud builds_**, so I chose to use an inner diameter of 3.5 mm for these coils. I really like these larger inner diameter coils for flavor builds. They allow me to stuff quite a bit of cotton in them and they will hold a lot of liquid. Speaking of cotton, **_I am using Cotton Bacon v2 for this build_** because I just love this cotton.

Here are some pictures I took while I was buidling the Velocity RDA clone by Tobeco:

{% include panel-blog.html panelTitle="Package of 28 gauge UD Roll Coils Wire." image="/posts/1.jpg" imageAlt="image of 28 guage twisted wire" %}

{% include panel-blog.html panelTitle="A 3.5 mm screw driver and 2 strands of wire, each measuring about 8 inches." image="/posts/2.jpg" imageAlt="2 wires and a 3.5mm screw driver" %}

{% include panel-blog.html panelTitle="Result! 2 nicely wrapped coils." image="/posts/3.jpg" imageAlt="2 coils, wrapped on a 3.5mm screw driver" %}

{% include panel-blog.html panelTitle="The Velocity clone by Tobeco." image="/posts/4.jpg" imageAlt="2 coils installed in the RDA's deck" %}

{% include panel-blog.html panelTitle="2 coils firing after compressing them. Not much work was needed to get them pretty." image="/posts/5.jpg" imageAlt="2 coils firing and glowing red" %}

{% include panel-blog.html panelTitle="2 coils firing after compressing them. Not much work was needed to get them pretty." image="/posts/6.jpg" imageAlt="2 coils firing and glowing red" %}

{% include panel-blog.html panelTitle="Lets get to wicking. I love this Cotton Bacon. So easy to work with and the cotton is so clean. No specks to remove like Japanese cotton. Just pull off what you need and you are good to go!" image="/posts/7.jpg" imageAlt="cotton bacon and 2 pieces of cut cotton" %}

{% include panel-blog.html panelTitle="The 3.5 mm inner diameter of these coils lets me use a lot more cotton. The cotton isn't tight or restricted. It fits just snug in the coils. I love using a lot of cotton for these flavor builds. " image="/posts/8.jpg" imageAlt="cotton threaded through the coils" %}

{% include panel-blog.html panelTitle="All wicked up. Just needs some juice and I'm good to go." image="/posts/9.jpg" imageAlt="coils neatly wicked with Cotton Bacon" %}

{% include panel-blog.html panelTitle="Juice added. Wicks saturated. She's chucking!" image="/posts/10.jpg" imageAlt="cotton juiced and firing" %}

{% include panel-blog.html panelTitle="Hamming it up lol... 75 watts and the flavor is outstanding. The clouds are on point for a build like this also. Btw " image="/posts/11.jpg" imageAlt="hamming it up for the camera lol" %}

Thanks for spending time with me today, Labor Day 2015. I hope you all have a great one. Peace out!

--

Jeff
